Topic/2024.0/story doc update (#8)
postsharp/PostSharp.Documentation: conceptual/Introduction/WhatsNew/whats-new-20240.md

---
uid: whats-new-20240
title: "What's New in PostSharp 2024.0"
product: "postsharp"
categories: "PostSharp;AOP;Metaprogramming"
---
# What's New in PostSharp 2024.0

PostSharp 2024.0 brings a major platform update, including support for new build and target platforms, updated dependencies of many packages.

> [!NOTE]
> Note that this release contains multiple breaking changes. See <xref:breaking-changes-20240> for details. 

> ## PostSharp Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## PostSharp Compiler
```

* Usage of `BinaryFormatter` during aspect serialization, used when aspects are marked with `[Serializable]` is deprecated due to security concerns. See more about the security vulnerability [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide). Usage of `[PSerializable]` is advised. An MSBuild property `PostSharpBinaryFormatterAllowed` has been added to allow usage of the old method in legacy application, but it is a discouraged and unsupported use case.

## PostSharp Pattern Libraries

* Dependencies were upgraded to versions without known security vulnerabilities. This affected most pattern libraries without breaking changes, but some pattern libraries dropped support for older target frameworks, notable `PostSharp.Patterns.Caching`, `PostSharp.Patterns.Caching.Azure`, `PostSharp.Patterns.Diagnostics.Microsoft`, `PostSharp.Patterns.Diagnostics.ApplicationInsights`.

> * PostSharp.Patterns.Caching now uses JsonCachingSerializer by default instead of BinarySerializer, which is now deprecated. This serializer internally used BinaryFormatter, which is considered dangerous. Again, see more about the security vulnerability [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `PostSharp.Patterns.Caching` now uses `JsonCachingSerializer` by default instead of `BinarySerializer`, which is now deprecated. This legacy serializer internally used `BinaryFormatter`, which is considered dangerous. Again, see more about the security vulnerability [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide).
```

> * PostSharp.Patterns.Caching.Azure now uses the latest Azure Service Bus API - Azure.ServiceBus NuGet package - through the new invalidator class `AzureCacheInvalidator3` that is available on all supported target frameworks. Previous implementations are now deprecated - `AzureCacheInvalidator`, `AzureCacheInvalidator2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `PostSharp.Patterns.Caching.Azure` now uses the `Azure.ServiceBus` package through the new invalidator class `AzureServiceBusCacheInvalidator` for all supported target frameworks. Previous implementations, `AzureCacheInvalidator` and `AzureCacheInvalidator2`, are deprecated.
```

---
uid: whats-new-20240
title: "What's New in PostSharp 2024.0"
product: "postsharp"

> categories: "PostSharp;AOP;Metaprogramming"

Reviewer: missing summary
